[RHIDP-3292]: Document external TLS certificate route configuration for the Operator (#2259)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/configure_configuring-rhdh/proc-configure-a-route-with-an-external-tls-certificate-by-using-the-operator.adoc

For more information, see {ocp-docs-link}/html-single/networking/index#nw-ingress-route-secret-load-external-cert_secured-routes[Securing routes with external certificates in TLS secrets].
====

.Prerequisites

* An {ocp-short} administrator has installed the {product} Operator.
* You have a TLS certificate stored in a Kubernetes Secret of type `kubernetes.io/tls` in the same namespace as your {product-short} instance.

.Procedure

. Add the `spec.application.route.tls.externalCertificateSecretName` field to your `{product-custom-resource-type}` CR, referencing the name of the Secret that contains your TLS certificate:
+
[source,yaml,subs="+attributes"]
----
apiVersion: rhdh.redhat.com/v1alpha5
kind: {product-custom-resource-type}
metadata:
  name: my-rhdh
spec:
  application:
    route:
      enabled: true
      host: my-rhdh.apps.example.com
      tls:
        externalCertificateSecretName: my-rhdh-tls-cert
----

. Apply the updated CR:
+
[source,terminal,subs="+attributes"]
----
$ oc apply -f my-rhdh.yaml
----

.Verification

* Verify that the route uses your external certificate:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get route -o jsonpath='{.items[0].spec.tls}' | jq .

Reviewer: +1 to this. `.items[0]` may not return the expected object.

```suggestion
$ oc get route backstage-$cr_name -o jsonpath='{.spec.tls}' | jq .
```

This is the expected name of the Route created by the Operator.

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="configure-a-route-with-an-external-tls-certificate-by-using-the-operator_{context}"]
= Configure a route with an external TLS certificate by using the Operator

[role="_abstract"]

> You can configure the {product-short} route to use a TLS certificate stored in a Kubernetes secret by setting the `externalCertificateSecretName` field in your `{product-custom-resource-type}` custom resource.

Reviewer 2: To secure application traffic with your own certificate, configure the {product-short} route to use a TLS certificate stored in a Kubernetes secret.

Author: ```suggestion
To secure application traffic with your own certificate, configure the {product-short} route to use a TLS certificate stored in a Kubernetes secret.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
// cqa-17: suppress — Technology Preview refers to an OCP feature, not RHDH
On {ocp-brand-name} 4.18 and earlier, securing a route with an external certificate is a Technology Preview feature that requires enabling the `RouteExternalCertificate` Feature Gate.
On {ocp-brand-name} 4.19 and later, this feature is Generally Available and does not require a Feature Gate.

> 

Reviewer 2: @themr0c In DITA, I thought we were not allowed to have inline links like this.

For more information, see {ocp-docs-link}/html-single/networking/index#nw-ingress-route-secret-load-external-cert_secured-routes[Securing routes with external certificates in TLS secrets].
====

.Prerequisites

* An {ocp-short} administrator has installed the {product} Operator.
* You have a TLS certificate stored in a Kubernetes secret of type `kubernetes.io/tls` in the same namespace as your {product-short} instance, and the certificate is valid for the route host configured in your `{product-custom-resource-type}` custom resource, for example `my-rhdh.apps.example.com`.

.Procedure

. Add the `spec.application.route.tls.externalCertificateSecretName` field to your `{product-custom-resource-type}` custom resource, referencing the name of the secret that contains your TLS certificate:

> +

Reviewer 2: For DITA I thought we could only have [source,yaml]. 

Might be safest to change this in order to prevent potential migration issues later.
